README.md, before:

# GCP Document AI Showcase

Interactive Streamlit application for processing documents with **Google Cloud Document AI** and visually overlaying extracted information (text, tables, entities, form fields, checkboxes) with interactive bounding boxes.

## Features

- **Multiple processor types**: OCR, Form Parser, Layout Parser, Invoice, Receipt, Expense, Bank Statement, Pay Stub, W-2, ID Document, Passport, Driver License
- **Auto-discovery**: Automatically discovers processors configured in your GCP project
- **Interactive bounding boxes**: Hover tooltips showing content, confidence, and type-specific details
- **Visual annotation**: Color-coded overlays for text lines, tables, paragraphs, form fields, entities, and checkboxes
- **Multi-page support**: Page navigation with zoom controls
- **Multiple result views**: Entities, Tables, Form Fields, Text, Raw JSON tabs
- **Flexible upload**: File upload, URL input, or sample documents
- **Deployable**: Ready for Streamlit Community Cloud

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) package manager
- A GCP project with Document AI API enabled
- At least one Document AI processor created in the project
- A GCP API key restricted to the Cloud Document AI API

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd gcp-doc-ai-showcase

# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Set up authentication:
export GCP_DOCAI_ENDPOINT="https://us-documentai.googleapis.com/v1/projects/your-project-id/locations/us"
export GCP_DOCAI_API_KEY="your-api-key"

# Run the app
uv run streamlit run app.py
```

See [QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md) for detailed GCP setup instructions.

## Architecture

```
app.py                  # Main Streamlit entry point
config.py               # Processor definitions, categories, colors
gcp_docai_client.py     # GCP Document AI REST client + DocumentAnalysisResult
document_processor.py   # File validation, PDF-to-image, coordinate math
ui_components.py        # Reusable Streamlit UI components
simple_annotator.py     # PIL-based image annotation
logging_config.py       # Centralized logging
```

## Supported Formats

| Format | Extensions | Max Size |
|--------|-----------|----------|
| PDF | .pdf | 40 MB |
| JPEG | .jpg, .jpeg | 40 MB |
| PNG | .png | 40 MB |
| BMP | .bmp | 40 MB |
| TIFF | .tiff, .tif | 40 MB |
| GIF | .gif | 40 MB |
| WebP | .webp | 40 MB |

Online processing supports up to 15 pages per request.

## Authentication

Provide an **endpoint URL** and an **API key**:

1. **API Key**: Create in GCP Console > APIs & Services > Credentials. Restrict to the Cloud Document AI API.
2. **Endpoint**: `https://{location}-documentai.googleapis.com/v1/projects/{project_id}/locations/{location}`

You can supply these via:
- **Environment variables**: `GCP_DOCAI_ENDPOINT` and `GCP_DOCAI_API_KEY`
- **Streamlit secrets**: Add to `.streamlit/secrets.toml`
- **Sidebar input**: Enter directly in the app's sidebar

## Visualization

Color scheme for bounding box annotations:

| Element Type | Color |
|-------------|-------|
| Text Lines | Blue `#007ACC` |
| Paragraphs | Dark Orchid `#9932CC` |
| Tables | Green `#00B04F` |
| Form Fields (KVPs) | Orange `#FF8C00` |
| Entities | Crimson `#DC143C` |
| Checkboxes | Purple `#8A2BE2` |

## Deployment

See [STREAMLIT_DEPLOYMENT.md](STREAMLIT_DEPLOYMENT.md) for Streamlit Community Cloud deployment instructions.

## License

MIT License. Attribution required when using or modifying this code.

Commit message:

Switch GCP Document AI client from API key to OAuth2 with service account support. Add Layout Parser results handling, hierarchical document layout rendering, and chunked document view. Update UI, environment variables, and documentation for the new authentication method.

README.md, after:

# GCP Document AI Showcase

Interactive Streamlit application for processing documents with **Google Cloud Document AI** and visually overlaying extracted information (text, tables, entities, form fields, checkboxes) with interactive bounding boxes.

## Features

- **Multiple processor types**: OCR, Form Parser, Layout Parser, Invoice, Receipt, Expense, Bank Statement, Pay Stub, W-2, ID Document, Passport, Driver License
- **Auto-discovery**: Automatically discovers processors configured in your GCP project
- **Interactive bounding boxes**: Hover tooltips showing content, confidence, and type-specific details
- **Visual annotation**: Color-coded overlays for text lines, tables, paragraphs, form fields, entities, and checkboxes
- **Multi-page support**: Page navigation with zoom controls
- **Multiple result views**: Entities, Tables, Form Fields, Text, Raw JSON tabs
- **Flexible upload**: File upload, URL input, or sample documents
- **Deployable**: Ready for Streamlit Community Cloud

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) package manager
- A GCP project with Document AI API enabled
- At least one Document AI processor created in the project
- A service account with `roles/documentai.apiUser` and a downloaded JSON key

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd gcp-doc-ai-showcase

# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Set up authentication:
export GCP_DOCAI_ENDPOINT="https://us-documentai.googleapis.com/v1/projects/your-project-id/locations/us"
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="/path/to/key.json"

# Run the app
uv run streamlit run app.py
```

See [QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md) for detailed GCP setup instructions.

## Architecture

```
app.py                  # Main Streamlit entry point
config.py               # Processor definitions, categories, colors
gcp_docai_client.py     # GCP Document AI REST client + DocumentAnalysisResult
document_processor.py   # File validation, PDF-to-image, coordinate math
ui_components.py        # Reusable Streamlit UI components
simple_annotator.py     # PIL-based image annotation
logging_config.py       # Centralized logging
```

## Supported Formats

| Format | Extensions | Max Size |
|--------|-----------|----------|
| PDF | .pdf | 40 MB |
| JPEG | .jpg, .jpeg | 40 MB |
| PNG | .png | 40 MB |
| BMP | .bmp | 40 MB |
| TIFF | .tiff, .tif | 40 MB |
| GIF | .gif | 40 MB |
| WebP | .webp | 40 MB |

Online processing supports up to 15 pages per request.

## Authentication

Provide an **endpoint URL** and a **service account key**:

1. **Service account key**: Create a service account, grant `roles/documentai.apiUser`, download the JSON key.
2. **Endpoint**: `https://{location}-documentai.googleapis.com/v1/projects/{project_id}/locations/{location}`

You can supply these via:
- **Environment variables**: `GCP_DOCAI_ENDPOINT` and `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`
- **Streamlit secrets**: Add to `.streamlit/secrets.toml`
- **Sidebar input**: Paste endpoint and key JSON directly in the app

## Visualization

Color scheme for bounding box annotations:

| Element Type | Color |
|-------------|-------|
| Text Lines | Blue `#007ACC` |
| Paragraphs | Dark Orchid `#9932CC` |
| Tables | Green `#00B04F` |
| Form Fields (KVPs) | Orange `#FF8C00` |
| Entities | Crimson `#DC143C` |
| Checkboxes | Purple `#8A2BE2` |

## Deployment

See [STREAMLIT_DEPLOYMENT.md](STREAMLIT_DEPLOYMENT.md) for Streamlit Community Cloud deployment instructions.

## License

MIT License. Attribution required when using or modifying this code.
